---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Architectures

Celerity supports a range of architectures for building multi-cloud applications that can run in multiple environments[^1].

This includes applications that provide HTTP APIs, WebSocket APIs, pub/sub message handling, queue message handling, scheduled events and cloud service events.

## HTTP APIs

## WebSocket APIs

## Events - Pub/Sub & Queues

## Events - Schedule

Scheduled events are events that are generated by a scheduler such as a cron job or a cloud service that provides scheduled event triggers.

Scheduled triggers are configured as a part of the `celerity/schedule` resource type.
`celerity/handler` resources can then be linked to the schedule resource to handle the scheduled events.

When a Celerity application is deployed to FaaS[^2] environments, the scheduled triggers are configured as you would expect for the specific cloud provider. (e.g. AWS EventBridge, Google Cloud Scheduler and Azure Event Grid)

When a Celerity application is deployed to containerised environments, the Celerity runtime hooks up scheduled triggers to a queue or message broker that is then polled by the runtime.

## Events - Cloud Service Events

Cloud service events are events that are generated by cloud services such as object storage, databases, and other services. These events can be used to trigger handlers in your application.

These events are configured as part of the `celerity/handler` resource type directly and do not require a separate resource type (e.g. `celerity/consumer` for queue message handling).

When a Celerity application is deployed to FaaS[^2] environments, the event triggers are configured as you would expect for the specific cloud provider.

When a Celerity application is deployed to containerised environments, the Celerity runtime hooks up Cloud Service event triggers to a queue or message broker that is then polled by the runtime.

[^1]: Environments in this context covers Function-as-a-service offerings such as AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions, and Azure Functions, as well as containerised environments such as Kubernetes, Docker, and the container orchestration platforms that use these technologies such as Amazon ECS, Google Kubernetes Engine, and Azure Kubernetes Service.
[^2]: Function-as-a-Service such as AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions, and Azure Functions.